Advertising now funds most of the popular web sites and internet services: companies including Facebook, Twitter, and Google all provide their services for free, in exchange for collecting data from their users.  One of the primary explanations for the success of these advertising platforms is the ability for advertisers to target user attributes or behaviors.  Recently, many advertising services have introduced a new mechanism that enables significantly more fine-grained targeting, commonly called personally identifiable information (PII)-based targeting or custom audiences.  These allow the advertiser to select the exact users who should see their ads by providing the platform with the users' PII or other uniquely-identifying information (e.g., cookies or advertiser IDs).  For example, on Facebook, advertisers literally upload a CSV file containing up to 15 different types of PII; Facebook then matches that file against their database and allows the advertiser to advertise to just those users who match.

This talk provides an overview of the work my group has undertaken to better understand the security and privacy implications of PII-based targeted advertising.  We have found a fundamental design flaw in Facebook's custom audience service that can be used to inadvertently reveal both users' PII and targeting attributes; we are now active engaging with Facebook to develop techniques to implement these services without leaking data.  Additionally, we are exploring ways in which PII-based targeted advertising could be used by malicious advertisers to implement discriminatory ads that may violate U.S. federal laws, and have found numerous ways in which this could be done by malicious advertisers.  Finally, we are exploring ways in which the PII-based targeting interface may allow us to gain visibility into the not-well-studied data broker ecosystem.
