Computer hardware provides the ultimate building blocks that enables the evolution towards the digital society. Malicious manipulations at the IC level can compromise the security of an entire system, including safety-critical applications such as automotive electronics, medical devices, or SCADA systems. From an adversarial point of view, such attacks have the “advantage” that they tend to be almost impossible to detect. Moreover, the revelations of Edward Snowden have shown that hardware Trojans are a realistic tool in the arsenal of large-scale adversaries.

Even though hardware Trojans have been studied for a decade or so in the literature, little is known about how they might look, especially those that are particularly designed to avoid detection. In this talk we introduce several low-level hardware attacks against embedded system, targeting the two dominant types of hardware platforms, ASICs and FPGAs.

Bio: Christof Paar has the Chair for Embedded Security at Ruhr University Bochum and is affiliated professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. He co-founded CHES, the Conference on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems. His research interests include hardware security, efficient crypto implementations, physical-layer security and security analysis of real-world systems. He holds an ERC Advanced Grant in hardware security and is Fellow of the IEEE and the IACR. Christof has more than 200 publications in applied cryptography and is co-author of the textbook Understanding Cryptography (Springer). He co-founded Escrypt GmbH, a leading player in automotive security, which is now part of Bosch.
