Support for range queries on numerical data is fundamental to database systems. This explains why several recent proposals for encrypted databases attempt to maintain this functionality “in the encrypted domain”. I will present a generic analysis of the security of such systems in two distinct attack settings. In the first setting, the adversary learns the access patterns, that is, which sets of records are returned in response to different range queries; this corresponds to an honest-but-curious database server. In the second setting, the adversary learns only the volumes of the responses, that is, the numbers of records returned in response to range queries. This corresponds to a network adversary who sees only encrypted communications between a client making queries and the database server. In the first setting, I’ll show that complete database reconstruction is possible in the “dense” case, given only O(NlogN) uniformly random range queries, where N is the number of distinct values of the data. I’ll also sketch a much more efficient approximate reconstruction attack and an attack that uses an auxiliary distribution for the data. In the second setting, I’ll explain how to carry out count reconstruction attacks, in which the attacker recovers the exact number of records of each value in the database. This leakage can represent a significant privacy breach. Here, under the assumptions that the ranges are uniformly distributed and that the data is sufficiently dense, I will explain why O(N^2 logN) range queries suffice.

The talk is based on joint work with Paul Grubbs, Marie-Sarah Lacharite and Brice Minaud. 
