Despite the current big push for stronger privacy regulations and an increased awareness amongst customers for their privacy, many businesses are slower to adopt privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) than one would expect. In some cases, organisations fear the consequences of violating privacy regulations but lack guidance on which PETs are fit to their data use case which prohibits them from using the data they hold. In other cases, organisations struggle to implement privacy technologies properly and share data that hasn’t been sufficiently protected which leads to a breach of privacy. In this talk we explore some of the technical challenges organisations are facing when trying to adopt PETs. 

We will use differential privacy as an example for an emerging privacy technology that could answer many organisations’ need, to safely share aggregate statistics, but nonetheless is used by only a few. We will look at some of the reasons for its slow adoption and touch on questions such as: Where are the gaps between the applications described in the academic literature and the requirements coming from industry? What are the concepts that are hardest to understand for a non-expert audience? Following our overview of the problems, we will look at a concrete example of an industry use case where differential privacy was a fit, and the challenges that arose in explaining differential privacy and the practical challenges of implementing it. Finally, we will discuss how we can make it easier for organisations to embed privacy into their existing data architectures and work towards PETs that better meet the requirements of real-world data use cases.
